Formed from magical rock, Immure was immediately fascinated by the concept of sentience, and consciousness. He would spend his first few years attempting to create a species that would share this curiosity, something that would desire to discover the meaning of this sentient ability. This creation would become known as [[Human]]. Immure had a great desire to speak with his creations, and ponder together the very reason for their existence. However, [[Chicane]] convinced him that it would be much more rewarding to first observe them from a distance, to see if they discussed these topics amongst themselves.

During this time, Immure was lured into Chicanes lake of origin, where it was revealed that he had been deceived. Chicane imprisoned Immure deep within the lake, and there he was left for more than a thousand years.

While trapped in this lake, Immure wished more than anything to contact his creation and let them know of his imprisonment. His plan was to create a creature with advanced mental capabilities, one capable of communicating telepathically, in order to lure humans closer so that they might be curious to investigate the waters and discover his prison. But, being surrounded by a medium he was unfamiliar with (Immure liked to work with Rock, not Water), not to mention a place imbued with Chicanes magic, the creation process was difficult to say the least. Still, after close to a hundred years of trying, Immure was able to create...something. Whereas before, he had created Humans in something like his image, as was the standard for all gods, this time, even Immure was a little unsure of how this [[Abhorrent]] turned out the way it did (some kind of hideous sea monster - need to define this more). But, being confident in his abilities, Immure breathed life into his creation, and almost immediately regretted it. Immure so wanted a creation of his own that could question the meaning of life itself, but instead, he had created a monster that questioned the point of life, so much to the point that it despised all life. The resulting monstrosity to regularly lure beings to the shores of it's watery home, and slay it swiftly and most efficiently.

When Immure was finally freed (as a result of [[The Magic Academy]]'s laws), he discovered that Chicane had been acting as the humans creator.