In the beginning, there were three fundamental constructs. The first, matter, provides the universal building blocks for every physical thing there can be. The second, energy, provides the forces necessary to bring these building blocks together. Without energy, all the matter in the universe would simply exist as separate entities, floating in a uniform cosmos. The third, magic, is... something of a mystery. And for the most part, it seems to stick to itself, barely interacting with the rest of the universe at all, simply drifting along in almost undetectable clouds. These magic clouds don't seem to do anything at all. They simple exist, inert. That is, until they collide with matter. Then, things can get violent, and... weird?

In much of the Universe, the outcome of these collisions can be quite devastating, often ending in the total destruction of planets, even galaxies. But when conditions are just right: a fresh, young solar system, with a newly forming star and planets, things are still shaping and changing. In one such system, on one such planet, with a surface still mostly covered in molten rock, and an atmosphere equal parts chaotic and calm, a magic cloud is about to collide. One moment, this planet is continuing on it's millennia-long journey to solidification, the next, utter turmoil.

Great chucks of molten rock are ripped from the planet, thrown into orbit, leaving behind towering columns upon the landscape. Huge sections of clouds are turned solid, hurtling to the ground at thunderous speeds, colliding with the planet with explosive force. Freezing cold fires would ravage the land. The core switched rapidly from solid to liquid to gas, some rising up to the surface, creating strange bubble-like features upon the land. This goes on for years, utter chaos and destruction, scarring the planet in every way you could imagine, leaving a world behind that's been ripped apart and thrust back together repeatedly. To this day, the landscape is mysterious, mystical, and deeply magical.

In this pandemonium, strange beings seem to emerge, blasted out of rock, condensed in the air, coalesced from the orbiting magma. One by one, these beings gain sentience, and some innate understanding of the magic that has created them. As the confusion dies down, and the planet leaves the magic cloud at last, these beings of immense power begin carving out their own destinies on the planet they now call home.