I don't like it here. The air is cold and humid, a stark contrast to the warmth back home. It took me ages to reach the village. I had to stop at one of the villages on the forest's outskirts and wait for available hunters to guide me through. I am grateful for the hospitality of the locals and how helpful they have all been. I would have been dead for certain if I had tried this on my own. My room in the local inn is acceptable, but the food is absolutely horrible. I don’t show my distaste, though, as I understand that resources in the forest are hard to come by.

I have spent the past few days just getting accustomed to the village. It’s quite a charming place, I have to say. The houses have a unique architecture that matches the rumors about this place back home. The craftsmanship is magnificent, and I've already planned to contact the Crafter Guild when I return. I've also been trying to make some meaningful connections here and explore if there are any locals interested in joining the expedition. I will try my luck with the Hunters, but from what I understand, it would go against their tradition to be hired in such a fashion, so I don’t expect much success there. There is something admirable about such an ancient organization that has remained loyal to its original mission for thousands of years.

I'm just back from my first proper trip into the forest since arriving. My attempt to involve the Hunters failed, but I managed to get some names of retired ones. I was told they would be interested in some odd jobs, and luckily for me, three of them accepted. We managed to reach the first clearing, about a three days' walk from here. The clearing is massive, but there's nothing particularly notable there except for some black structures scattered about. They had some inscriptions, but I wasn’t able to translate them on the spot, so I took notes and headed back to town. I plan to visit the library to get some help deciphering them.

I have been so busy lately, but mostly because I'm so excited. There must be something to these rumors. The writings point in that direction, and I’ve also found some interesting things in the library. The story isn't complete—not at all. And the evidence isn't clear either. However, there are hints, bits and pieces. Unexplained and missing elements sometimes speak the loudest. My training is certainly coming in handy. Imagine if I were to find some indication, some sort of evidence. It could lead to an expedition from the capital itself. Imagine being the one who finds the resting place of an Ilutari, the source of knowledge. Ah, I’m so excited.