As the other gods formed, they left no magical resource behind, instead choosing to absorb it into their bodies at conception. As a result, all other gods were gigantic in stature, and quickly learned of one another. This was not so for the God of Ruin. As the chaos of the magic cloud tore up the planet, Ruin became sentient, and saw the resources that she could use for her own designs. She chose a small body, of a size most mortals would take much later in history. The magic infused rock around her she made extreme efforts to conceal, so that none of the other gods might be tempted with it.

As the chaos subsided, and the planet cooled, Ruin began working on a great [[Colossus]]. She would carve from her rock day in, day out, never stopping to rest, or eat. Her focus was absolute. A year would pass before she would breath life into her creation, this thing of a size nearly rivalling (though not quite) the other gods (who by this time had already been competing for space on the planet). The Colossus awoke underground, in pure darkness. It began excavating a home for itself at once.

But rather than marvel at her creation, Ruin began work on the next one. And then the next, and then the next. For a thousand years, Ruin would work tirelessly, creating these beings of immense size and magical power. Soon, their growing civilisation would expand far under the crust, with tunnels branching to all corners of the planet. It was with this stage set, that Ruin was ready to enact her plan.

She instructed her beings to tunnel upwards, an idea that she had until this moment kept from their minds. At once, in spots all across the planet, the Colossi emerged, with their smaller Giant offspring, ready to destroy all that they found.

The other gods were not prepared for this event, and the living beings they had created had no chance of defending themselves against such destruction, in an event that would eventually simply be referred to as [[The End]].

From this moment onwards, the other gods, and all mortals, would fear Ruin. Curiously, however, for as long as she had her rock, all she would ever do was carving our more Colossi to add to her army. Yes, for as long as she had her rock...