These Colossi are highly intelligent, and entirely magical. Created by [[Ruin]] with the intention of creating the most powerfully magical beings (besides the gods) as her personal army, the colossi are given full reign of the land, with nothing else anywhere near their capabilities to even attempt to take them down. Even the gods are unable, individually, once the Colossi numbers are great enough.

This took time, however. Only a single Colossus could be created each year, from the most intensely magical rock on the planet. For a thousand years, Ruin created these beings in secret, restricting them to underground caverns, magically hidden from all who may try to find what she was up to.

The Colossi were totally unaware of the world above them, assuming all of reality was surrounded by rock. Over time they would carve out great structures, starting with individual buildings and growing through village, town, and beyond. They lived a peaceful life in this millennia, testing out their magical abilities in incredible displays at local tournaments and grand festivals. Whilst these colossi would stand several 10s of meters high, their offspring were of a size slightly more similar to other species above land (though still several meters tall), and their magical abilities far more restricted and refined.

Eventually, this peaceful beginning would become but a distant memory for those first thousand colossi. Infused with a hatred for all other sentient species, the moment they were released on land their true nature would present itself. Any other species they came across, they would either eradicate, enslave, or elsewise eliminate from the land. They became greatly feared, and the subject of great battles. Though their numbers only grew at the pace of one a year, almost all attempts on their lives were futile, so the population would continue to rise for millennia to come (not to mention their offspring, which would grow at a much greater rate - though they were not quite as hateful towards others, and as a result less feared - though still hated purely by matter of association).