Following on from what's been discussed in [[Ideas for magic]] and [[Magic/Overarching concept|Overarching concept]], a new idea has formed that I think can help us shape the uses of magic in our world.

As our [[Overaching Concept|creation story]] goes, the planet our stories will be set on was bombarded with magical energy early on in its formation. Along with the [[Gods/Overarching concept|Gods]] that this event created, the world was scattered with magically infused rock, water, magma, air(?), and any other resources we can think of. When the Gods willed it, they would use these magically infused resources to create magical beings, such as the [[Colossus]] (regular beings being created with non-magical resources). These resources are the source of ALL magic in this universe. This makes magic a "finite" resource (though there is so much of it it practically doesn't matter), though it can never be destroyed, only repurposed.

Since this resource can be gathered and harnessed, either from raw material, or the bodies of defeated magical beings (albeit rather dangerously), opportunities arise for non-magical beings. Minerals could be set into jewellery, or ground into powder which some would use to fertilise plants, giving them magical properties of their own. From these plants, wands and staffs could be created, or magical clothing, even magical ingredients for foods and potions. At each step in the refinement process, the chaotic "soft" magic of the raw materials would become a "harder", more controllable magic, though slightly weaker as a result. Typically, the less refined the magic, the more powerful, to the point that more refined magic is easily parried.

For some, this was as far as they dared push, for others, combinations of refined plant and raw ground up rock would be created, and a magical drug trade was born. In battle, people may inject themselves in hopes of swinging the war in their favour (though often the results would be fatal for both sides of the war - one such time, a huge geyser erupted from the injected individual, becoming the spring of a river that still flows many millennia later). Other times, people would snort or smoke things in the hope of given them an edge in day to day life, perhaps hoping to rise from the gutters into a better life. Stories of women injecting themselves at the moment of conception would transpire, where the hope was to give inate magical abilities to their offspring (in some cases, this would work, in most, only devastation followed).

Entire cities band together to take down huge magical beings, all in the effort to harness the magic within their bodies, to use for their own purposes.