The empire stretches far and wide. It has gone through several expansions, chewing slowly more and more of the continent.

The region to the north-west, was captured not that long ago. It was a tricky military campaign, caused by the mountainous region, with many valleys in between.

The defensive positions here were strong, making it a costly and tedious when the Empire decided to expand. The end goal of this campaign was to get a hold of several important resources.

One of these resources, is the famous Vuosarcuoda. A type of tree, that grows only in the forest Mörkamatki next to the great lake, Sturrojavri. The tree is famous for its hard shell and sturdiness. Slow growing, but could reach an impressive height, that no other tree can compete with. The forest of Mörkamatki is therefore an impressive sight to see, but also mysterious, dark, and older than most people and civilizations on the continent.

Getting a hold and controlling the production of the Vuosarcuoda wood became one of the central elements of the north-eastern campaign. The species of trees are unique for the forest. Fed on the water that comes from the lake of Sturrojavri, the species has created an outer shell around its wood. Making the trees feel like rock, and almost nonflammable, and each tree being several thousand years old.

With the region and the production in control of the empire, it would revolutionize the empires wood-crafting, creating for example, one of the most impressive navies with wood from the Vousarcuoda.

Today, the region has one of the most important inland traceroutes. Because of the plenty mountain ranges around, the number of possible routes the roads could take, is limited, making it to one main road. It goes from the capital, up north, following the edge of the mountain range, until a gap in the mountains comes. However, traveling through this gap is not easy, as in it lies Mörkamatki. The empirical road have two routes here. One goes south and goes around the forest, following the outskirts of it the whole way around. On this road several villages lies. The other road, goes through the forest. Going around is the safest option by far, but also adds several weeks to the trip.  The quickest route goes straight through the forest. The forest is home to many animals and creatures, making this route difficult. The trip takes two weeks, and you are limited to one possible safe camp in the village of Gavdno. However, many takes this route exactly because how quick it is compared to the safer, south-eastern route.

A bonus on this trip, is that you ned up visiting Gavdno. The village lies next to the main river that flows from the great lake of Sturrojavri and are just a 20 min walk from the great lake itself. The lake is dark and endless, with the water from it feeling heavier then usual.  

Gavdno is quite a big village with buildings built from the Vousarcuoda tree. In the middle of the village, on a little hill, stands the tower of observation, Tievarri. A truly magnificent tower, that really showcases the sturdiness of the wood. Tall and seemingly very solid, the tower really stretches up beyond the other houses.

The village is seeping of tradition. Everywhere you look, you can see the age of the village, and it is rumored to be the first place that humans settled in this area.

The reason for the early settlement was the trees. Humans, industrial and builders as their nature, saw the beauty in suck a place. The humans here also created a close connection to the gods of “nature”, something of an oddity. Firstly, there was distrust between the god and the humans settling here, but over time, the humans built trust and showed the god how they handled the forest with care and respect. The humans were humbled by the impressive and dangerous environment.

Consequently, the village, together with the other villages around, is one of the few places in which humans have considered themselves followers of “the god”. In the north-eastern corner of the village of Gavdno, a specially large Vousarcuoda stands tall. It was planted and cared by one of the first settlements of humans here, it is said that the “god” showed its acceptance of the humans, by giving its blessing to the tree. Today, the sacred tree stands as the focal point for the human followers of the god in the region, revered as the embodiment of their faith and devotion. The site of worship has been carefully designed, with the tree in the end of two rows of trees, creating an impressive channel that you walk through before getting to the tree itself.

Just north of the sacred site, is another important and impressive place. A huge area is fenced off, and inside the area, hundreds of large trees stand. On each tree, there are large carvings of texts. These carvings are though like any other carvings. Any other places, carvings on trees are something kids and lovers would do. However, because of the nature of the trees, carvings are incredible difficult to do, as it takes dedication and experience in actually making a dent in the really hard shell of the tree. Consequently, the carvings on the trees are not done easily or on a whim. On these trees, important stories and knowledge is stored, as an open-air library with each tree representing a book. On the ground, stones have been placed in-front of each tree, and over time, being grown over with moss, making it comfortable to sit for hours to read through each carving on the trees.

The villages are dominated by its wood crafting. Cutting these trees are no easy task. The hard shell makes it an act of endurance and knowledge that most people do not possess. However, people in this village, and in the one around, have over centuries developed the skill and knowledge necessary to do this. The process of cutting one tree, takes several weeks, with carefully thought-out acts that eventually will fell one tree. This is considered a sacred act, and when one is taken, another is planted.