The empire is vast and complex. the leadership is directed by a powerful Tradeguild, (name), that have rose to power by negotiating important alliances and prosecution of the other guilds. They have been in power for (xxx) years.

The empire have conducted a large [[The Education Campaign|Education Campaign]], removing and changing the earlier history. not known to most of the public, the empire didnt become the empire under the tradeguild. 

The success can be traced long time ago when a small city-state decided to create the guild assembly, after there was a need for a conflict resolution mechanism between the guilds. the assembly developed over a (xxxx) years, and gave the city-state an important and stable political system, that allowed them to quickly resolve internal conflicts. The guilds navigated the system, established alliances and had to go for compromises between themselves.

Central to the system was a sense of balance. No guild could get the upper hand, as then there was a sense of bandwagoning against a guild that became too powerful. Powers were kept in check by the others, and this established a ruthless and efficient political structure, that expanded quickly. After years of expansion, the empire settled. Further expansion was seen as too costly and inefficient. What followed was a particular stable time. In this time, an aspect of their foreign policy became to use their financial might. Trade became an important tool and weapon, and they used this with an extreme efficiency. However, as the trade became such a central element, slowly, the powers inside the guild assembly started to shift. The traders guild became more and more wealthy, and the powerbalance started to shift. The other guilds reacted, and were able to negotiating between themselves to balance against the trade.

One particular event change this. Not much is known, but one particular group of people changed things: 
- One from [[The Trade Guild]]
- One inside [[The Mercenary Guild]]
- One inside [[The Purifying Guild]]
- One inside [[The Magic Academy]]

The connection between these people, no one really know. But some thing are for certain. The most powerful, and the leader, was the person in the Trade Guild. And, these people worked together. 

The leader was from an extremely wealthy family, and for some reason, this person decided it wanted to spread its influence. 

Using their wealth and political power, the four rose quickly and became prominent figures inside each guild. They were able to swing the power into their favour, and especially for the trade guild. It caused a major political shift, and many guilds were prosecuted and destroyed. The magic academy was dismantled, and just a few magical routes were considered official (those who agreed to allied with the trade guild). These routes, now called "schools" became part of the empires four school of magic.

The mercenary guild became the new military expertise. Ruthless and religious fanatics, became a central part of their element.

The Purifying Guild became the official "secret police", not only dealing with magic users, even though that was considered an important part.

In short, the political changes caused the empire to be govern by a collective of guilds, to become a oligarchy. Many previous guilds were incorporated as different ministries in the new political system.

This also lead to further expansion, and the empire started to stretch itself over a much larger area. It is in this time [[The Education Campaign]] were established to deal with the expansion. However, it started to stretch thin. As the efficient conflict mechanism inside the empire was destroyed, internal conflict started to be a much bigger part of its system. Causing it to slowly break, one piece at the time.